---
uid: at-least-once-delivery
title: At-Least-Once Delivery
---
# At-Least-Once Delivery

To send messages with at-least-once delivery semantics to destinations you can mix-in `AtLeastOnceDelivery` class to your `PersistentActor` on the sending side. It takes care of re-sending messages when they have not been confirmed within a configurable timeout.

The state of the sending actor, including which messages have been sent that have not been confirmed by the recipient must be persistent so that it can survive a crash of the sending actor or CLR. The `AtLeastOnceDelivery` class does not persist anything by itself. It is your responsibility to persist the intent that a message is sent and that a confirmation has been received.

Members:

- `Deliver` method is used to send a message to another actor in [at-least-once](xref:message-delivery-reliability#discussion-what-does-at-most-once-mean) delivery semantics. A message sent this way must be confirmed by the other endpoint with the  `ConfirmDelivery` method. Otherwise it will be resent again and again until the redelivery limit is reached.
- `GetDeliverySnapshot` and `SetDeliverySnapshot` methods are used as part of a delivery snapshotting strategy. They return/reset state of the current guaranteed delivery actor's unconfirmed messages. In order to save custom deliverer state inside a snapshot, a returned delivery snapshot should be included in that snapshot and reset in *ReceiveRecovery* method, when `SnapshotOffer` arrives.
- `RedeliveryBurstLimit` is a virtual property which determines the maximum number of unconfirmed messages to be send in each redelivery attempt. It may be useful in preventing message overflow scenarios. It may be overridden or configured inside HOCON configuration under *akka.persistence.at-least-once-delivery.redelivery-burst-limit* path (10 000 by default).
- `UnconfirmedDeliveryAttemptsToWarn` is a virtual property which determines how many unconfirmed deliveries may be sent before guaranteed delivery actor will send an `UnconfirmedWarning` message to itself. The count is reset after the actor's restart. It may be overridden or configured inside HOCON configuration under *akka.persistence.at-least-once-delivery.warn-after-number-of-unconfirmed-attempts* path (5 by default).
- `MaxUnconfirmedMessages` is a virtual property which determines the maximum number of unconfirmed deliveries to hold in memory. After this threshold is exceeded, any `Deliver` method will raise `MaxUnconfirmedMessagesExceededException`. It may be overridden or configured inside HOCON configuration under *akka.persistence.at-least-once-delivery.max-unconfirmed-messages* path (100 000 by default).
- `UnconfirmedCount` property shows the number of unconfirmed messages.

## Relationship between Deliver and ConfirmDelivery
To send messages to the destination path, use the `Deliver` method after you have persisted the intent to send the message.

The destination actor must send back a confirmation message. When the sending actor receives this confirmation message you should persist the fact that the message was delivered successfully and then call the `ConfirmDelivery` method.

If the persistent actor is not currently recovering, the deliver method will send the message to the destination actor. When recovering, messages will be buffered until they have been confirmed using `ConfirmDelivery`. Once recovery has completed, if there are outstanding messages that have not been confirmed (during the message replay), the persistent actor will resend these before sending any other messages.

Deliver requires a `deliveryMessageMapper` function to pass the provided `deliveryId` into the message so that the correlation between `Deliver` and `ConfirmDelivery` is possible. The `deliveryId` must do the round trip. Upon receipt of the message, the destination actor will send the same `deliveryId` wrapped in a confirmation message back to the sender. The sender will then use it to call the `ConfirmDelivery` method to complete the delivery routine.

[!code-csharp[Main](../../../src/core/Akka.Docs.Tests/Persistence/AtLeastOnceDelivery/AtLeastOnceDeliveryActor.Messages.cs?name=AtLeastOnceDelivery)]

[!code-csharp[Main](../../../src/core/Akka.Docs.Tests/Persistence/AtLeastOnceDelivery/ExampleAtLeastOnceDeliveryReceiveActor.cs?name=AtLeastOnceDelivery)]

The `deliveryId` generated by the persistence module is a strictly monotonically increasing sequence number without gaps. The same sequence is used for all destinations of the actor, i.e. when sending to multiple destinations the destinations will see gaps in the sequence. It is not possible to use custom `deliveryId`. However, you can send a custom correlation identifier in the message to the destination. You must then retain a mapping between the internal `deliveryId` (passed into the `deliveryMessageMapper` function) and your custom correlation id (passed into the message). You can do this by storing such mapping in a Map(CorrelationId -> DeliveryId) from which you can retrieve the `deliveryId` to be passed into the `ConfirmDelivery` method once the receiver of your message has replied with your custom correlation id.

The `AtLeastOnceDeliveryReceiveActor` class has a state consisting of unconfirmed messages and a sequence number. It does not store this state itself. You must persist events corresponding to the `Deliver` and `ConfirmDelivery` invocations from your PersistentActor so that the state can be restored by calling the same methods during the recovery phase of the PersistentActor. Sometimes these events can be derived from other business level events, and sometimes you must create separate events. During recovery, calls to deliver will not send out messages, those will be sent later if no matching `ConfirmDelivery` will have been performed.

Support for snapshots is provided by `GetDeliverySnapshot` and `SetDeliverySnapshot`. The `AtLeastOnceDeliverySnapshot` contains the full delivery state, including unconfirmed messages. If you need a custom snapshot for other parts of the actor state you must also include the `AtLeastOnceDeliverySnapshot`. It is serialized using protobuf with the ordinary Akka serialization mechanism. It is easiest to include the bytes of the `AtLeastOnceDeliverySnapshot` as a blob in your custom snapshot.

The interval between redelivery attempts is defined by the `RedeliverInterval` method. The default value can be configured with the *akka.persistence.at-least-once-delivery.redeliver-interval* configuration key. The method can be overridden by implementation classes to return non-default values.

The maximum number of messages that will be sent at each redelivery burst is defined by the `RedeliveryBurstLimit` method (burst frequency is half of the redelivery interval). If there's a lot of unconfirmed messages (e.g. if the destination is not available for a long time), this helps to prevent an overwhelming amount of messages to be sent at once. The default value can be configured with the *akka.persistence.at-least-once-delivery.redelivery-burst-limit* configuration key. The method can be overridden by implementation classes to return non-default values.

After a number of delivery attempts a `UnconfirmedWarning` message will be sent to self. The re-sending will still continue, but you can choose to call `ConfirmDelivery` to cancel the re-sending. The number of delivery attempts before emitting the warning is defined by the `WarnAfterNumberOfUnconfirmedAttempts` property. The default value can be configured with the *akka.persistence.at-least-once-delivery.warn-after-number-of-unconfirmed-attempts* configuration key. The method can be overridden by implementation classes to return non-default values.

The `AtLeastOnceDeliveryReceiveActor` class holds messages in memory until their successful delivery has been confirmed. The maximum number of unconfirmed messages that the actor is allowed to hold in memory is defined by the `MaxUnconfirmedMessages` method. If this limit is exceed the deliver method will not accept more messages and it will throw `MaxUnconfirmedMessagesExceededException`. The default value can be configured with the *akka.persistence.at-least-once-delivery.max-unconfirmed-messages* configuration key. The method can be overridden by implementation classes to return non-default values.